# AI vs Human Text Detector

## Overview
This project develops a machine learning model to differentiate between text generated by humans and text generated by AI. Utilizing Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques and TensorFlow/Keras for model building, it offers insights into distinguishing characteristics of AI-generated text versus human-written content.

## Features
- Utilizes TensorFlow and Keras for building a deep learning model.
- Employs preprocessing techniques like tokenization, padding, and embedding using GloVe vectors.
- Includes a dataset balancing strategy through undersampling.
- Implements LSTM (Long Short-Term Memory) neural networks to capture sequential data dependencies.
- Provides a PyQt5 based GUI for real-time text classification.

## Installation
Ensure Python 3.8+ and pip are installed. Clone this repository and install the required libraries using the following commands:

git clone https://github.com/BachirKabbara/AI-vs-Human-Text.git
cd AI-vs-Human-Text

## Usage
First, prepare your dataset by placing it in the project directory as `AI_Human.csv`. Then, run the preprocessing script to clean and balance your data. 

## Contributing
Your contributions are welcome! Please follow these steps:

1. Fork the project.
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`).
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some AmazingFeature'`).
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`).
5. Create a new Pull Request.

## Acknowledgments
- My Collegue Bahaeddine Kabbara
- Natural Language Processing techniques
- TensorFlow and Keras for model development
- GloVe for word embeddings
- PyQt5 for GUI application
- Kaggle for the dataset

## License
Distributed under the MIT License.

## Contact
Feel free to contact me at bachir.m.kabbara@gmail.com for any questions or if you wish to contribute to the project.

Project Link: https://github.com/BachirKabbara/AI-vs-Human-Text
